Node shutdown API docs (#74505)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/shutdown/apis/shutdown-put.asciidoc

it will be prepared for shut down when it rejoins the cluster.

IMPORTANT: This parameter is *NOT* validated against the cluster's active nodes.
This enables you to register a node for shut down while it is offline.
No error is thrown if you specify an invalid node ID.

[[put-shutdown-api-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

[role="child_attributes"]
[[put-shutdown-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`type`::
(Required, string)
Valid values are `restart` and `remove`.
Use `restart` when you need to temporarily shut down a node to perform an upgrade,
make configuration changes, or perform other maintenance.
Because the node is expected to rejoin the cluster, data is not migrated off of the node.
Use `remove` when you need to permanently remove a node from the cluster.
The node is not marked ready for shutdown until data is migrated off of the node

`reason`::
(Required, string)
A human-readable reason that the node is being shut down.
This field provides information for other cluster operators;
it does not affect the shut down process.

`allocation_delay`::
(Optional, string)

> Only valid if `type` is `restart`. Controls the delay between the indicated
> node going offline and when those shards are reassigned to other nodes, to
> allow time for the indicated node restart. This behaves in the same way as the
> <<delayed-allocation,general delayed allocation>> mechanism. Note that the
> longer of the delay configured for this restart and any index-level allocation
> delay will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only valid if `type` is `restart`. Controls how long {es} will wait for the node to restart and join the cluster before reassigning its shards to other nodes. This works the same as
<<delayed-allocation,delaying allocation>> with the `index.unassigned.node_left.delayed_timeout` setting. If you specify both a restart allocation delay and an index-level allocation delay, the longer of the two is used.
```

Reviewer 2: Wow, that's much, much better wording. Thanks!

node so that it is safe to terminate the process. Terminating the Elasticsearch
process after the node is ready to shut down as indicated by the
<<shutdown-api-get-shutdown,Node shutdown status API>> is the responsibility
of the cluster operator.

[[shutdown-api-put-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT _nodes/<node-id>/shutdown`

[[shutdown-api-put-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `manage`
<<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API.

* If the <<operator-privileges,{operator-feature}>> is enabled, only operator
users can use this API.

[[shutdown-api-put-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Use the register node for shutdown API to indicate to the cluster that it
should prepare for the given node to be shutdown. This process ensures that
that the node can be safely shut down with minimal disruption to the cluster.

Preparing the node for shutdown involves migrating ongoing tasks and,
if necessary, index shards off of the given node onto another node.

This API can also be used to change the `type` of shutdown a node is being

> prepared for.

Reviewer 2: This is not currently correct, but will be shortly.

Reviewer 2: True as of https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/75161.

IMPORTANT: This parameter is not validated against the nodes currently in
the cluster, to allow registering a node which is not currently online for
shutdown. Using an invalid node ID will not result in an error.

[[shutdown-api-put-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

[role="child_attributes"]
[[shutdown-api-put-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`type`::
(Required, string)
Valid shutdown types are `restart` and `remove`. The `restart` type indicates
that the node will be shut down temporarily, so data will not be migrated
off the node. The `remove` type indicates that the node
will be permanently shut down and removed from the cluster, so data will
be migrated off the node before it is marked as ready for shutdown.

`reason`::
(Required, string)
A human-readable reason that this node is shutting down. The value of this
field does not change any behavior, it is simply for coordination among
cluster administrators.

[[shutdown-api-put-example]]

Register a node for shutdown:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------

> PUT /_nodes/USpTGYaBSIKbgSUJR2Z9lg/shutdown

Reviewer 3: Does this API also accept a comma separate list of node ids? 

`PUT /_nodes/node_id[,node_id]*/shutdown`

Reviewer 2: No, not currently. We don't have immediate plans to do so either, but if it would save you a lot of work please let us know - there's no technical reason they don't IIRC, just other things we'd rather spend our time building and testing.

Reviewer 3: Not a priority from my point of view.
